                                                                                      ABSTRACT
India comprises of a large number of villages that  by this programme are: in terms outnumber the cities and towns.
Most of the population of india resides in villages.
Villages are also described as "The soul of the india lies in villages" as villages exhibits the culture of india.
The village which plays most important part in india arent developed since the independence.
But the development shouldnt disturb the ethnicity,culture and customs of the villages. So,the solution to the priblem is"The Smart Village".
Many villages in india doesnt have proper health crae facilites. Even for small issues they need to seek for near town for medical facilities.
Most of the people in villages are uneductaed as they dont have access to good education facilities. Lack of infrastructure is also a factor that hinders the development of country.
The smart village is a programme which aims in development of villages which acts as base for the country in terms of health, commerce,finance,education, agriculture and infrastructure without distrubing or affectinh the culture of villages.
The smart village concept was started by a Central government in 2016 in which government plans to develop the rural areas. The NRIs who settled i america are also participated to become part of revolution.
the development that can be observed this programme are: In terms of health facilities the hospitals will beinstalled with sophisticated machinery and highly skilled dcotors with availabilty of generic pharmacy which make the cost of the medicine affordable.


                                                                                     METHODOLOGY
The research is taken to know the opinion and situation of villages , the life style of people, the basic facilities available for them and necesities that need to be addressed.
The responses are from the people who have taken the survey and everyone have their own opinion.
In survey of about hundred people of different age demographics are participated.
Most of the peole are from the age group of 18-30 and the most people responded are those who migrated in search of a better facility.



                                                                                  LITERATURE REVIEW
The development of villages is a significant factor for sustainable development. It helps to reduce the migration to urban areas and brings back many villages who can help the village to get better.
The concept of smart village was brought in 2016 by a collaborative work of union ministry of Rural development and PM Narendra Modi.
Sustainable development is dicussed on the basis of environmental factors, but from the perspective of rural communities.
The challenges in the implementation of concept "SMART VILLAGE" is that insufficiency of their development potential.
In India there are over 6,40,000 villages out of these 1,25,000 are backward so it is not good for our country. 
Therefore planning and developing the villages into "SMART VILLAGES" is a crucial step that the government has to take to ensure that the country develops overall.	 